Cloud code just got a live connection to
the outside world. Channels released
today in v2.1.80
lets external services push events
directly into a running cloud code
session. Telegram, Discord, CI/CD, web
hooks, production alerts. Claude reads
the event, acts on it, and replies back.
Here's what that means in practice.
You're on the train. Your build fails on
main. Your CI posts to a local web hook.
Claude sees the build failure, pulls the
logs, finds the bug, fixes it, and
pushes a commit. And while you're still
on the train, or you open Telegram on
your phone, and message your Claude bot,
add dark mode to the settings page.
Claude receives it, writes the code, and
replies when it's done. One command
activates it. Claude- channels. Link in
description.
Claude Code now has two ways to bridge
the gap between you and a running
session. Remote control, which shipped
last week, lets you drive the session
from your phone or browser. You send
messages. Claude responds. You stay in
control. Channels is different. With
channels, you are not the one sending
the messages. External services are a
Telegram bot pushes a message you sent
on your phone. A CI web hook pushes a
build failure notification. A Discord
bot forwards a message from your team
channel. Claude receives the event,
decides what to do, and acts without you
watching. The mental model is remote
control means you're still at the wheel
just using a different interface.
Channels means Claude is parked in a
session with its ears open reacting to
whatever the world sends it. Both are
useful. They solve different problems.
Remote control is for deliberate
interactive use when you're away from
the terminal. Channels is for autonomous
reaction. Events arrive. Claude handles
them. In the research preview, three
official channel plugins are available
from Anthropics plug-in marketplace.
First, Telegram. Install the plugin.
Configure it with your Telegram bot
token from bot father. Run the pairing
flow. You DM the bot. It gives you a
code. You approve it in your Claude code
session and your Telegram ID is on the
allow list. From that point, every
message you send to the bot arrives as a
channel event in your Claude code
session and Claude's reply comes back to
your Telegram chat fully two-way.
Second, Discord. Same pattern. Bot from
the Discord developer portal. Message
content intent enabled. Configure, pair,
done. Third, fake chat, the demo plugin
that requires nothing. Install it. Start
Claude with it enabled. And a local host
UI opens in your browser on port 8787.
Type a message in the browser. It lands
in Claude session. Claude replies. It
appears in the browser. Zero setup.
Great for understanding how the whole
system works before you hook up a real
messaging service. All three are
two-way. Claude can read events and
reply back through the same channel.
The most powerful use case for channels
isn't the chat bridges. It's the web
hook receiver. Here's the setup. You
write a tiny web hook server. It's about
20 lines of TypeScript using the MCP
SDK. It listens on a local host port.
When your CI pipeline finishes, it posts
the result to that port. The web hook
server emits a channel event. Claude
reads it. If the build passed, nothing
happens. If the build failed, Claude
sees the error, pulls the relevant
files, reads the stack trace, writes a
fix, runs the tests, and commits. You
wake up in the morning to a fixed build.
The same pattern works for production
monitoring. Your alerting system, Data
Dog, Pager Duty, whatever you use, posts
to the web hook when an anomaly fires.
Claude investigates, reads the logs,
checks if there's a known pattern, and
either fixes it, or writes up a summary
for you to review. The security model is
careful. You're running the web hook on
local host, so only your own CI and
monitoring tools can reach it, and you
can control exactly what Claude is
allowed to do in response to each event
type. This is what autonomous agentic
development actually looks like in
practice.
Channels has a thoughtful security
model, and it's worth understanding
before you set it up. The core
principle, every channel plug-in
maintains a sender allow list. Only IDs
you've explicitly approved can push
events into Claude's session. Everyone
else is silently dropped. For Telegram
and Discord, the allow list is populated
through a pairing flow. You initiate
contact from your account. The bot gives
you a code. You approve it in clawed
code. Your user ID is added. For web
hooks, you control the allow list in
your server code. You check the source
of each incoming request before emitting
a channel event. The docs are explicit
about the risk. An ungated channel is a
prompt injection vector. Anyone who can
reach your endpoint can put arbitrary
text in front of Claude. The protection
comes from being on localhost and from
your allow list code during the research
preview. The dash- channels flag only
accepts plugins from anthropics
maintained allow list. The claude
plugins official marketplace to test
your own custom channel during
development. Use d-dangerously load
development channels. For team and
enterprise accounts, channels is
disabled by default. Admins enable it
from the cloud code settings in the
admin panel.
Cloud code started as a coding assistant
you talk to at the terminal. Remote
control made it something you can drive
from anywhere. Channels makes it
something that acts without being driven
at all. A session that listens to the
world and responds. That's a meaningful
shift. Most agentic AI tools today are
request response. You ask, it answers
loop. Channels breaks that loop. Claude
can now be the one that initiates
action. Not because you sent a message,
but because something happened. A build
broke, an alert fired, a teammate sent a
message. This is what always on agentic
development looks like at the
infrastructure level. It's in research
preview, which means the API will change
and there are rough edges, but the
pattern is established. MCP servers can
now push events into Claude's context.
That capability will only expand from
here. If you're building developer
tooling, CI systems, monitoring
pipelines, or anything that generates
events you currently have to manually
respond to, channels is worth setting up
today. Link in the description for the
docs and official plug-in source code.